Link to all reviews - https://ljmu-my.sharepoint.com/:o:/g/personal/csmcjon1_ljmu_ac_uk/Eqn6fNpnkeZIjdiUeL4vINoB_lfvHHbGinPskt2kGgIlMA?e=cz75JM

Action:

Review - Dying Light 2 Stay Human  
 
3.5 out of 5 Stars 
Genre: Action 
Age Rating: 18 
Year of release: 2022 
 
While the story is simple and at times slow to follow through. It has some unforgettable characters and moments in the story and game. Techland do a very good job at making the city feel like a detailed living environment with it’s own politics and concern and the choices in the storyline are delivered well with the stereotype of a good and bad choice not existing here with sacrifices made such as cooperating with bad people to get the best for the city with the adventure and outcome not being predictable. 

This game sequel to the original game that came out in early 2015 with a very lukewarm reception is by far a bigger, better and meaner game.  While, it has been a hot second is once this game was announced all the way back at E3 2018. Development issues staggered the game’s release date such as that the then creative director of the game left after accusations of misbehavior caught up with him. But finally in 2022 it is here although very different to the originally promised and shown game which isn't necessarily a bad thing…. 

The game is a soft reboot of the series’ story arc with it being set in the exact set as the original although we fast-forward a decade and a half where the world is left in a primitive state. Villedor or more commonly known “The City” is used this time with its being done of the final large settlements in the world with Harran left behind. Players play the character of Aiden Caldwell in this game a “Pilgrim” who travels through the decreasing amount of settlements on a mission to find his long-lost sister. Both siblings were abused and used in experiments into a possible deadly vaccine by a doctor called Waltz and is likely that he is in hiding in Villedor. With the game story getting the player to locate him and maybe the sister which won’t be a walk in the park. 

The plot of the story is easy to follow with it leading to a series of complications that expects the mission to becoming harder to follow. With an obstacle followed early on is  discovering that Waltz and character’s sister are more most likely to be in the downtown ‘Central Loop’ of the city. An area that is guarded which means discovering a way of passing them which gets you caught and issued into solving a complicated murder mystery which sets off a massive war between the Peacekeepers and Survivor factions. Getting to the ‘Central Loop’ is a lot more complex that it sounds which it taking longer than 10 hours of playtime. 

There is a lot to like about this game. The game is incredibly smooth to play with there being no lag to suffer from and the playing environment being vivid and almost life-like which makes the game really engaging to play because you feel like you are the player and not playing a console. Another big selling point is how this isn't a stereotypical game which the character teaming up with villains etc. 

The worst thing about this game is how slow and long the game can feel to play. While, it can seem positive that it lasts longer, the duration of the game can make this game feel very dull at time and you just want something over and done with.  

While the story is simple and at times slow to follow through. It has some unforgettable characters and moments in the story and game. Techland do a very good job at making the city feel like a detailed living environment with its own politics and concern and the choices in the storyline are delivered well with the stereotype of a good and bad choice not existing here with sacrifices made such as cooperating with bad people to get the best for the city with the adventure and outcome not being predictable. 


Review - Shadow Warrior 3  
 
3.5 out of 5 Stars 
Genre: Action 
Age Rating: 18+ 
Year of release: 2022 
 
Shadow Warrior 3 lasts around 8 to 10 hours in duration but there ain’t a boring moment within it with acrobatics being a burden but combat within the game such as slicing through enemies and sudden changes of tactics being flawless. Lo’s sparky comments really add to this story and game with this game being a great love letter to the blood filled shooter games of previous years. 
 
Shadow Warrior is the latest game released in the Shadow Warrior series which is developed by Flying Wild Hog and released by Devolver Digital. While, the exploration of this game isn't the best and little rough, this is undoubtably an incredibly fun game to play at the combat side with the quick nature of this game never achieving mediocrity and always challenging and amusing. 

The character of Lo Wang is back in this sequel but previous event not leading to a positive outcome in his life. The arc and villain of this game is an ancient dragon that brings terror to the world and each attempt to kill it has fouled. He is weak against the dragon therefore has to create an alliance with his former nemesis Orochi Zilla in killing and beating the ancient dragon as generic weapons will not slay it. Both of them go on a journey to search magical artifacts that are put around the land in the quest to create a powerful weapon to kill the dragon. The issue they face is hordes of yoke are around the land and it is down to Lo Wang to kill his way through them. 

The game has some light RPG elements with the player finding orbs that are spent in improving the character through his abilities and weapons but works as an old-school 1st person shooter as a base in actuality. Most of the combat within this game is set in small combat areas where Lo is trapped until he has killed his enemies. The game starts with a katana and revolver which is used to destroy weak enemies while as the enemies become badder grenade launchers and twin uzis are used. With badder enemies including huge katana-wielding yokai that can block gunfire or floating helmets whose weak point is on the back of their head.  

There is a lot to like about SW3, to play the game it does feel satisfying with the game feeling consistent visually, it also is brilliant to look and play visually which is a major plus as an aesthetically pleasing game taking gaming experience to another level.  The biggest like about the game and playing it is how excellent the combat feels on it which clearly engages you as a player. 

Although, not everything about the game is great and smooth-sailing, the story’s writing isn't Shakespearian with it feeling quite cheesy at times, the 3rd act of the game also can feel quite boring and the whole thing tends to feel forced as a cash-grab. This game also isn't the best game to navigate neither unless you are a heavy gamer which can isolate the average Joe. 

Shadow Warrior 3 lasts around 8 to 10 hours in duration but there isn't a boring moment within it with acrobatics being a burden but combat within the game such as slicing through enemies and sudden changes of tactics being flawless. Lo’s sparky comments really add to this story and game with this game being a great love letter to the blood filled shooter games of previous years. 


Review - The King of Fighters XV 
 
4.5 out of 5 Stars 
Genre: Action 
Age Rating: 13 
Year of release: 2022 
 
The 15th! Game within the King of Fighters franchise is finally here after 2 years of Covid delays with it certainly being worth the wait. The story of this game carries on from its predecessor with a mystery being called Verse destroying the previous battle area and being defeating by winning challenges. This time it seems that a new storm is on the way to stop any tournament action from occurring. The plot of this story does not really take the front seat for this game but multiplayer action battling with other gamers and possible moves to use against overshadow that. The game’s picture quality is top notch with the game being stunning to look at with all fighters being cel-shaded 3D models which are impressive to look at and each player has 8 different colour outfits for their costumes which prevent the players looking boring and being versatile. The background of these stages not being too bad at all to look at as well with it being obvious that gaming developers not rushing this aspect of the game. Each game feels personalized.  

This new sequel contains 39 different characters you can choose to fight in with familiar faces to fans of the franchise being in the mix. Each character will also be given to a team out of 13 potential ones. Each team contains 3 members each and once playing it is very obvious which game you are playing for. The movement of characters and animation work brilliantly as well with the battles remaining exciting to play and quick. If a computer can beat you in a battle, the option of either weakening them, strengthening yourself or both is available once you lose. This might give the needed push to move forward and 4 different types of attacks are offered here which are Light Punch, Light Kick, Hard Punch, and Hard Kick with an option of ‘Rush Mode-Auto Combo’ being offered once one form of attack is used 3 times in a row.  

The game is available to be used either locally or online with single player or multiplayer being available in both with a new type of multiplayer being introduced here called “Draft vs” which does not allow both players to use exact the same character for a battle which makes a game a lot more interesting when both cannot use exactly the same character in battle. 

Visually this game is brilliant to play and to look at. Both visual effects and stages look brilliant and really does add to the story. The game also runs smooth as butter with zero lag helping during fighting scenes which with a high frame rate helps create an incredible gaming experience with player’s moves occurring instantly. 

The biggest letdown of this game is how each character do not have an intro nor theme fighting which creates a loss for appeal. There are some annoying bugs that are notable during the games as well which can be a big nuisance and at times affect the players’ gaming experience. 

This game is a lot of fun if you enjoy fighting games or the King of Fighters gaming series with it being much fun to use as well if you are inexperienced in fighting games. This is a barrel of fun in both sides of experience with chaotic moves and attacks assuming any player. This is a game that will entertain the fussiest player with ease.  


Review - Breakout: Recharged 
 
3 out of 5 Stars 
Genre: Action 
Age Rating: 3+ 
Year of release: 2022 

This classic game that has been played for decades since its creation in 1976 on a series of different devices such as iPods and Blackberry mobiles as a simple yet effective game to entertain is back and better than ever. The game which as the player controlling a paddle at the bottom of the screen as it moves side to side thanks to player has been modernized for the 21st century while thankfully keeping the original formula and concept. 
 
In Breakout: Recharged, there are several ways to play the game such as playing the original simple game while trying to improve your skill and improve the last and best high score. While, a challenge mode has been introduced with challenges involving breaking a specific amount of blocks or surviving for a certain n amount of time etc.  

This game introduces a wide arrange of power-ups such as having several balls on the go or blocks that explode once contacted. The main survival mode will introduced them at random times unless disabled. Might seem simple but this game isn't as easy as it seems with losing being a regular occurrence at first unless trained on the game.  

This game can be attractive to look as with gameplay being buttery smooth and the clear, crisp yet simple neon style of it looking fun and satisfying. With the game being easy to function and play without feeling like a chore. 

Despite the backdrop, colour scheme and music being a great selection to appeal to the public, after a while the game and these attributes can become jarring as you are used to seeing and hearing them again and again 

If you enjoy playing the original, you will certainly like this as it keeps the exact same formula just modernized and improved. Contains an attractive colour scheme of mostly purple and blue hues with look great on an OLED screen such as the Nintendo Switch OLED model and has a good soundtrack to work with it as well. This is a great love letter to the original while improving the game majorly with the challenge mode implemented. 

Sci-Fi:

Review - Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order 
 
4 out of 5 Stars 
Genre: Sci-Fi 
Age Rating: 16+ 
Year of release: 2019 
 
This game in Star Wars gaming franchise which feels separate from the films that created them is an interesting play which for once is a game in the franchise to nails how Stars Wars should feel not just look.  

The key to this game’s story is friendship with it being core in both gameplay and storyline. The friendship arc of this game is between Cal Kestis who is a Jedi padawan that is hiding after the Jedi Purge that occurred Revenge of the Sith and BD-1 who is droid is given a secret task by the Jedi Master that owned it. After Cal and BD-1 meet, they become inseparable and cooperate well to solve puzzles in forgotten ruins, explore alien environments and get revenge on the Empire. 

Both work in the game to complete a scavenger hunt that was made by BD's last companion, Master Cordova. Before he disappeared, Cordova hid a list of Force-sensitive children throughout the galaxy that could be used to bring back the ruined Jedi Order and challenge the Empire. Clues were left on how to get back the list hidden in BD, meaning Cal and the droid need to explore multiple worlds after Cordova did to free up BD's encrypted memories. 

This game can be very tough and both BD’s support and possible upgrades are needed in this game to go through. Enemies within’ this game are very powerful and hard to out-power. Both the player and villain have a stamina meter to support and control with it telling you how much blows you can take/give before making yourself or them too weak while fighting them to pass through. This games also loves to give the player several enemies to fight at once.  

There is a lot to love with this game such as how the difficulty can give you the a realistic gaming experience of feeling like a Jedi while being aware of the difficulty. Characters within’ this game is another powerful aspect of this game with it helping a player to experience elements of the franchise. Combat is also spot on in this game with it not being a walk in the park for players and making the player to be self-aware and to think. Visually this game is brilliant with a high frame rate, picturesque to play in and giving a responsive nature.  

Although, this game is not perfect with a few bad points with the biggest one being how the whole story starts too slow and makes it bland with it taking time to improve. Battles within this game can be annoying was well when checkpoints to go on through being very far at times. The only down point in actual playing quality of this game is the navigation and how playing it can be unnecessarily complex on the controller. 

If you have ever thought how exactly it would be to be a Jedi and want to experience it, this is truly the perfect game for it with it being very engaging and realism being key here. 


Review - Journey To The Savage Planet 
 
3.5 out of 5 Stars 
Genre: Sci-Fi 
Age Rating: 13+ 
Year of release: 2020 
 
The story behind Journey To The Savage Planet is a "savage planet" that brings up thoughts of hostility and survival, exploring the possible death through the dangers of life on the frontiers of space. While there are murderous objects out to get you in Journey to the Savage Planet, it isn't the point of the game and only a minor gimmick rather than the main meaning. Developer of the game, Typhoon Studios centers the game on the importance of exploration while tying it with real humour and an amusing tone to give us a light and singularly focused chunk of sci-fi adventuring. 

The setting of the whole game is on a single planet located deep in unmonitored space. You're pushed into the space boots of an employee of Kindred Aerospace--a rinky-dink outfit that's proud and humble of its status of being rated the fourth-best interstellar exploration company, which makes you think how bad competition could actually be. Once your feet encounter the planet itself, you'll begin to see the flora, fauna, and beings across the various biomes of planet AR-Y 26 to see whether it's fit for human habitation or not with the whole climate change thing ruining Earth. 

This game is also playable as multiplayer with a friend which enhances the game and makes combat much more fun but playing it multiplayer doesn’t affect the game itself nor storyline at all. The option of exploring together or going and exploring different places are both options. Humour is key in this game, while playing with a friend can have its moments. The game itself is without issue funny with the high amount of full-motion videos on the player’s ship. These clips show humour and parody a lot of different topics such as the video game industry and corrupt policies at big companies.  

There is a lot to like in this light and fun game. The stupid but fun humour is actually laughable and engages the player. Exploring the planet isn't a chore neither while being full of fun and valuable things to discover. The colour scheme of this game and how neon it is appeals to the gamer while playing as well especially with an automatic response on screen with a high fresh rate. 

A downside to the game can be how satire it is for some hardcore gamers as well with it being off-putting for some. Some apparent bugs also disappoint players as well because it ruins the experience at times and makes it hard to play it with different elements going wrong agitating people. 

This game is clearly a very fun and light game that is needed at times when life is heavy as it is a brilliant escape and isn't a chore to play. Playing Journey To The Savage Planet can be a very relaxing experience thanks to its humour, lightness and engaging gameplay. 


Review - Aliens: Fireteam Elite 

2.5 out of 5 Stars 
Genre: Sci-Fi 
Age Rating: 16+ 
Year of release: 2021 

This latest Sci-Fi game based on the Alien franchise that centers around a lot of shooting is a great laugh and time when played with a simple and wacky mindset. This game which is inspired by other gaming franchises such as Gears of War which makes it feel a bit unoriginal is saved by small yet effective original elements and the setting of the Alien movies which make it very playful and engaging which is impressive to consider how dialogue in this game can be questionable, the uninspired story and non-player characters who are able to communicate with their mouths closed without any creative excuses to justify why that occurs.  

The story of this game takes place years after the Alien films. The character played here is appropriate Colonial Marines on a mission to various panic signals. This game could definitely be considered third-person shooter with the player attempting to get the needed targets and striving to clear out places within the game that are full of Xenomorphs. This is a brilliant game to play with loved ones online as you are able to cooperate in a team. 5 different classes to pick from, that all contain personalized qualities such as a technician role. 

The entertainment factor of this game can depend on whether you do play with other humans or the non-player bots that are bleak and none verbal which can making it a relatively boring situation. With other players, it can be a barrel of laughs and amusing time but without, it can seem like a bit of a chore to play and complete. 

The positives for this game include how realistic it feels and how as a player, you do feel like you are playing on an Alien film and the potential fun factor of playing it online. It is also fun that it does not take itself too seriously and is a decent shooter sci-fi game. Visually, the setting again looks authentic and detailed, the game thankfully is easy to navigate on a controller as well which is a big plus.  

But there are a lot of negatives to this game as well such as how developers did not even bother to make non-player characters to communicate naturally, how at times this game does feel like a rip off to other games that have been released, communication between the characters of the game is jarring and cringeworthy at times and how this has not been a game that has been developed to maximum fun with playing solo in mind. 

Overall, this game is not a high point in the Alien video game franchise but decent enough to play if you are a fan of both the movie and shooter game otherwise I would avoid and play a better similar game such as Gears of War. 

Sports:

Review - Knockout City 

4.5 out of 5 Stars 
Genre: Sports 
Age Rating: 10+ 
Year of release: 2021 

Knockout City is a new intense cooperating game based on the US game dodgeball that includes easy moves and skills to learn and develop with professional and complicated maneuvers, this game can bring this to the table whilst looking like a childhood cartoon series. The game is clear and rewarding to play while bringing the benefits of a PE lesson without downfalls. 
 
The visuals and sound of this game are brilliant with the playlist of songs being fun and encouraging and the characters looking good once you pass the fact it can look like a Bratz toy. The setting and scenery are colourful and vibrant with there being cool abjection and mods being available on this game. There is a unique and dope sound the individual balls make when they make contact with a person. the rule of this game is how a gang of 3 or 4 have to defeat and disable the other team by throwing the dodgeballs that cover the whole map at them. One must be struck twice to be knocked out and the gang to make this occur 10 times win. 
 
The tactic is the name of the game here with somewhat mind games being the ultimate power to break your potential victim’s defence. The ball can be struck faster or through a slower one to surprise the victim and their timing. throws that curve around are possible as well. Real person techniques appear here as well. 
 
This game is brilliant with a lot going for it such as how simple yet fun this game is, how colourful and animated the characters and setting are, down to smaller things such as real-life effects like the sound of a ball being thrown. It also thinks out of the box with a ball-less mode being available where you throw other members of a gang to the beat the other. This vibrant game also has a brilliant high-fresh rate which makes it much more realistic and effective. With no bugs being found either this is a silky smooth game to play. 
 
There is not much at all to complain about as the game is finessed. The only critic is how simple the concept can be which will most likely make it boring for one after a while. 
 
This is undoubtedly one of the best player vs player games in a while. It is a hot and modern look at the traditional US school game which means it is playable for almost anyone as it is so simple to play and navigate while being competitive! 


Review - Skatebird

2 out of 5 Stars 
Genre: Sports 
Age Rating: 12 
Year of release: 2021 

 
This game which is Pro Skater and Micro Machines put together is like a mediocre meme bought to life with the concept being petit birds riding a fingerboard on minuscule ramps around different settings such as a workplace and a bedroom. This game tries to be a third-dimensional light skateboarding game with the result being an adorable and head-turning yet basic, quick and annoying game to play. 

This is a very random game to come up with and can feel uninspired. Again, Pro Skater is the main inspiration here and the concept they came up with which was to allow whoever was playing to wander around the maps looking for certain unimportant and light tasks. These tasks are thrown all around the map but they are not heavy or essential as a lack of countdown while completing them will show. Unironically, the mood is delivered well with the playlist being full of unforgettable primary bird-related songs. The playlist could be considered the best part here with it being full of calm yet effective songs that even the player aka the birds grooves to. 

This game does not give the player the task and while going around you will encounter them while not closed away from being seen, it can be agitating to control and complete quickly. Most tasks here are quite simple with the actual time to complete it and gather items also being brilliant for laziness and a lot of resources are around the same place at the game while can make the game bland and you are not challenged at all.  

The positive thing about this game is how light it is to play if you do not want to commit too much time or a general player of games. The playlist again also is brilliant, the game is vibrant and fun to look at with all its light colours without gloom. 

Although there are many bad points to this game such as how basic the game is without a need of being challenged with simple tasks and enough time. It doesn’t help how there are only 5 levels to play on therefore there isn't a lot of gameplay with this game without already completing it with a certain level being beige with a nano rooftop. The entertainment of this game isn't helped with the lack of multiplayer to play with others and simple maps to explore. To look at it can be quite annoying as well with how amateur the camera and controls of the game are with it struggling to showcase progress on-screen without hassle where it shakes and the player gets stuck at a bizarre area of the screen with struggle. 

Minus the fact that this game is adorable and with a great music act with it. Skating on this game is outdated, the concept and possibilities are lazy and to view it is a headache. While it can appear amusing, it isn't worth playing unless you really love birds. 
